"[Front cover]," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, China, 2016, pp. c1-c4.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497816
Abstract: Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record.
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497816&isnumber=7497815

"[Front matter]," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, China, 2016, pp. 1-24.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497817
Abstract: Conference proceedings front matter may contain various 
advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other 
miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the 
cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half 
title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to 
the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings.
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497817&isnumber=7497815

X. Yin and S. Lafortune, "On maximal permissiveness in partially-observed 
discrete event systems: Verification and synthesis," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 1-7.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497818
Abstract: The notion of maximal permissiveness plays an important role in 
synthesis problems in the supervisory control framework. It is well known that 
the supervisor synthesis problem has a unique supremal solution when all the 
events are observable. However, under the partial observation setting, no 
supremal solution exists in general and there may exist several locally maximal 
solutions. In this paper, we tackle the supervisory control problem under 
partial observation from a new angle. First, we propose an approach to verify 
whether a given supervisor is maximal or not. If a supervisor is not maximal, 
then we provide an algorithm that synthesizes a new supervisor that is strictly 
more permissive than the given one. To the best of our knowledge, both the 
verification of maximality and the synthesis of a larger solution were 
previously open problems; our algorithms are the first ones of their kind.
 keywords: {control system synthesis;discrete event 
systems;observability;maximal permissiveness;maximality 
verification;observability;partial observation setting;partially-observed 
discrete event systems;supervisor synthesis problem;supervisory control 
framework;supremal solution;Zinc},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497818&isnumber=7497815

K. Cai and W. M. Wonham, "A new algorithm for computing the supremal relatively 
observable sublanguage," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 8-13.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497819
Abstract: Recently we proposed relative observability for supervisory control of 
discrete-event systems under partial observation. Relative observability is 
closed under set unions and hence there exists the supremal relatively 
observable sublanguage of a given language. In this paper we present a new 
characterization of relative observability, based on which we design an 
algorithm that computes the supremal sublanguage. This algorithm is formulated 
in terms of languages, thereby separating out the linguistic essence of the 
problem from the implementational aspects of state computation using automaton 
models. Exploiting the linguistic concept of support based on Nerode 
equivalence, we prove that for regular languages the algorithm is finitely 
convergent to the supremal sublanguage.
 keywords: {discrete event systems;formal languages;observability;Nerode 
equivalence;discrete-event systems;linguistic concept;partial 
observation;regular languages;relative observability;state 
computation;supervisory control;supremal relatively observable 
sublanguage;Algorithm design and analysis;Automata;Computational 
modeling;Control systems;Discrete-event systems;Observability;Pragmatics;Nerode 
equivalence relation;Supervisory control;discrete-event 
systems;partial-observation;regular languages;relative observability},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497819&isnumber=7497815

L. Swartjes, M. A. Reniers, D. A. van Beek and W. J. Fokkink, "Why is my 
supervisor empty? Finding causes for the unreachability of states in synthesized 
supervisors," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 14-21.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497820
Abstract: Although supervisory control synthesis has been around for many years, 
adoption is still low. A weak point of synthesis is the absence of a reporting 
mechanism. When an empty or unexpected supervisor is returned, it is very 
difficult to explain why this is the case. It is desired to return an 
explanation for a question, like, “Why is my supervisor empty?”. In general, the 
information needed to provide such an explanation is not present in the 
synthesized result. In this paper, causes (explanations) are generated for 
questions regarding the absence of behavior in the synthesized system. To this 
end, it is first investigated what information is needed and how it should be 
stored. Based on these findings, information of the influence of each 
requirement is encoded in the supervisor. This is done by annotating colors. The 
resulting so-called colored predicates can be used after synthesis to derive a 
cause for a given question.
 keywords: {SCADA systems;control system synthesis;reachability analysis;colored 
predicates;supervisory control synthesis;synthesized 
supervisors;unreachability;Automata;Color;Conferences;Cost accounting;Mechanical 
engineering;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497820&isnumber=7497815

K. Mallik and A. K. Schmuck, "Supervisory controller synthesis for decomposable 
deterministic context free specification languages," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 22-27.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497821
Abstract: In this paper we consider a supervisory control problem (SCP) 
consisting of a regular plant language and a deterministic context free 
specification language, where the latter can be decomposed into a regular and a 
deterministic context free part. For this setup we give an implementable 
algorithm calculating two separate controllers for each part of the 
specification. We show under which conditions the parallel composition of these 
controllers solves the original SCP. The latter is done by reducing the problem 
to a special case of hierarchical decentralized control and using existing 
results from the literature.
 keywords: {control system synthesis;decentralised control;formal 
languages;hierarchical systems;specification languages;SCP;deterministic context 
free specification language;hierarchical decentralized control;implementable 
algorithm;parallel composition;regular plant language;supervisory control 
problem;supervisory controller synthesis;Automata;Context;Decentralized 
control;Handheld computers;Observers;Production;Supervisory 
control;Deterministic Context Free Languages;Hierarchical Decentralized 
Control;Supervisory Control Theory},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497821&isnumber=7497815

F. Atampore, J. Dingel and K. Rudie, "Automated service composition via 
supervisory control theory," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 28-35.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497822
Abstract: Web services play a major role in electronic businesses and allow 
organizations to perform certain business activities in a distributed fashion. 
In some circumstances, a single service is not able to perform certain tasks and 
it becomes imperative to compose two or more services in order to complete a 
task. While approaches to tackle such a problem are known, the task of 
generating provably correct Web service compositions still remain challenging 
and complex. In this paper, we develop a supervisory control framework for 
automated composition of Web services. Labelled Transition Systems augmented 
with guards and data variables are used to represent a given set of Web service 
specifications. We model the interactions of services asynchronously and we use 
guards and data variables to allow us to express certain preconditions which are 
then propagated from the system requirements through the overall composite 
service. The objective of our framework is to synthesize a controller, which 
interacts with a given set of Web services through messages to guarantee that a 
given specification is satisfied. A key novelty of this work is the application 
of control theory to service-oriented computing and the incorporation of 
run-time input into the supervisor generation process.
 keywords: {Web services;business data processing;service-oriented 
architecture;Web service compositions;Web service specifications;automated 
service composition;business activities;electronic businesses;labelled 
transition systems;service-oriented computing;supervisor generation 
process;supervisory control theory;Business;Computational 
modeling;Semantics;Software systems;Supervisory control;Web services},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497822&isnumber=7497815

F. L. Baldissera and J. E. R. Cury, "Computing continuous control laws for gene 
regulatory networks within a discrete-event systems approach," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
36-43.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497823
Abstract: Controlling the dynamics of intracellular networks has many important 
applications in Biotechnology and Medicine. In a previous work, we presented a 
method based on the Supervisory Control Theory to find a control law capable of 
guiding a given gene regulatory network from an initial state to some predefined 
target state. The controller was assumed to be implemented by synthetic genes. 
Our approach was entirely developed in the discrete-event domain. In this paper, 
we show that our ideas can also be employed to find continuous control laws for 
gene regulatory networks modeled by ordinary differential equations. Hence, we: 
a) enlarge the range of application of our initial ideas to encompass continuous 
models traditionally used by the Systems Biology community; and b) make it 
possible to refine the dynamic specifications of the synthetic genes that act as 
controllers.
 keywords: {continuous systems;differential equations;discrete event 
systems;genetics;biotechnology;continuous control laws;discrete-event 
domain;discrete-event systems approach;dynamic specifications;dynamics 
control;gene regulatory networks;intracellular networks;medicine;ordinary 
differential equations;supervisory control theory;synthetic 
genes;Automata;Biological system modeling;Computational modeling;Differential 
equations;Mathematical model;Proteins;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497823&isnumber=7497815

G. Cavone, M. Dotoli and C. Seatzu, "Resource planning of intermodal terminals 
using timed Petri nets," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 44-50.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497824
Abstract: In this paper we show how timed Petri nets can be efficiently used to 
solve problems related to resource planning in intermodal freight transport 
terminals. In particular, the tackled issues regard the strategic planning of 
the number of facilities used to transfer the intermodal transport units and the 
capacity/frequency of the transportation means. A real case study is considered, 
namely a rail-road terminal located in southern Italy. Monte Carlo simulations 
based on the timed Petri net model of the terminal are carried out considering 
various scenarios, including both the regular behavior based on real data, and 
situations of potential congestion resulting from increase in the commercial 
flows.
 keywords: {Monte Carlo methods;Petri nets;freight handling;strategic 
planning;transportation;Monte Carlo simulations;commercial flows;intermodal 
freight transport terminals;rail-road terminal;regular behavior;resource 
planning;southern Italy;strategic planning;timed Petri net model;transportation 
means capacity;transportation means frequency;Analytical models;Computational 
modeling;Data models;Firing;Load modeling;Petri nets;Transportation},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497824&isnumber=7497815

M. P. Fanti, A. M. Mangini, G. Pedroncelli and W. Ukovich, "A Petri Net model 
for fleet sizing of Electric Car Sharing Systems," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 51-56.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497825
Abstract: This paper deals with two basic design problems that incur in a modern 
city transportation strategy, i.e., the Electric Car Sharing System (ECSS). 
Modelling the system in a modular Timed Petri Net (TPN) framework, the optimal 
fleet size and the number of charging positions of the ECSS are determined by a 
simulation analysis. The ECSS dynamics is described by taking into account fully 
charged, partially charged and out of power electric vehicles. Moreover, TPNs 
allow taking into account some particular events, like specific user flows in 
different time bands or the exit of the customers from the station after waiting 
for the availability of electric cars. A simulation study points out the 
effectiveness of the proposed design strategy.
 keywords: {Petri nets;automobiles;electric vehicles;transportation;ECSS 
dynamics;city transportation strategy;design problems;electric car sharing 
systems;fleet sizing;modular TPN framework;modular tmed Petri net;optimal fleet 
size;power electric vehicles;simulation analysis;system 
modelling;Automobiles;Cascading style sheets;Mathematical model;Petri 
nets;Stochastic processes;Urban areas},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497825&isnumber=7497815

Ming Liu, Lujun Xu, Shijin Wang and Chengbin Chu, "Efficient algorithm for quay 
crane scheduling with arbitrary precedence constraint," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 57-62.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497826
Abstract: This paper investigates quay crane scheduling problem at container 
ports, subject to arbitrary precedence constraint. Differing from traditional 
machine scheduling problems, non-crossing constraint must be satisfied because 
parallel quay cranes mount on a same rail to unload or load containers. 
Precedence relation in an arbitrary form is rarely investigated in the 
literature, however it may be originated from (i) reefers or dangerous cargo 
which requires high priority of processing, and (ii) yard stacking plan. We 
present computational complexity for several problem variations. We show the 
problem, even without precedence constraint, is strongly NP-hard, which improves 
the state-of-the-art. A genetic algorithm is proposed to obtain near-optimal 
solutions. Computational experiments demonstrate the efficiency.
 keywords: {computational complexity;cranes;genetic 
algorithms;scheduling;NP-hard problem;arbitrary precedence 
constraint;computational complexity;dangerous cargo;genetic algorithm;machine 
scheduling problem;precedence relation;quay crane scheduling problem;reefers 
cargo;yard stacking plan;Containers;Cranes;Electronic mail;Genetic 
algorithms;Job shop scheduling;Schedules},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497826&isnumber=7497815

F. Hagebring, O. Wigström, B. Lennartson, S. I. Ware and Rong Su, "Comparing 
MILP, CP, and A* for multiple stacker crane scheduling," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 63-70.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497827
Abstract: This paper describes an optimisation model for the scheduling of a 
system consisting of three stacker cranes that are restricted to the same track. 
To improve the efficiency of the solution methods, a novel simplification of the 
model is presented, which has a low impact on the quality of the solution but 
greatly decreases its complexity. This model is then used to benchmark several 
popular solution methods, including both optimal and approximate methods. Some 
are based on monolithic models, whereas others solve the problem in phases by 
using sub-problem formulations. The result presented in this paper shows that 
evaluated solution methods have complementary strengths and weaknesses. 
Constraint Programming (CP) is very efficient on small scale problems, while 
Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP) scales much better when the number of 
movement orders increases. However, none of these methods are able to solve 
large instances of the problem to optimality. To handle the complexity of the 
problem, approximate solution methods are the only viable option. In this paper 
we show that promising results can be obtained even with simple methods using 
well known search algorithms such as A* and Tabu-search. However, preliminary 
results on more advanced search algorithms show that further improvements may be 
achieved, allowing the solution of very large problem instances.
 keywords: {computational complexity;constraint handling;cranes;integer 
programming;linear programming;scheduling;search problems;storage;A* 
search;MILP;Tabu-search;approximate method;complexity handling;constraint 
programming;mixed integer linear programming;monolithic model;movement 
orders;multiple stacker crane scheduling;optimal method;optimisation 
model;search algorithm;subproblem formulation;Approximation algorithms;Collision 
avoidance;Complexity theory;Containers;Cranes;Schedules;Tracking},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497827&isnumber=7497815

N. Sundström and B. Lennartson, "Rescheduling affected operations - a purely 
predictive approach," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 71-78.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497828
Abstract: Rescheduling is used to minimize the impact on the system performance 
when disruptions are present. Affected operations rescheduling (AOR), is often 
mentioned in the literature on rescheduling. This method generates an initial 
deterministic job shop schedule offline, which is updated online in response to 
machine breakdowns. Only operations directly or indirectly affected by a disrupt 
is rescheduled. In this paper, we formulate a purely offline AOR approach for 
job shops. Based on a time-optimal schedule, the proposed method generates 
sequence-based constraints resulting in the same system performance. The 
realized schedule is identical for both approaches. Also, the proposed approach 
applies to any disrupt that might cause delays in the system. In right-shift 
rescheduling (RSR), all remaining operations are postponed if disrupts occur. A 
formal proof is presented to show that AOR will always perform better than or 
equal to RSR in the face of disruptions. For analyzing the effect of disrupts, 
an analytical measure of the makespan is introduced, which depends on possible 
delays in the system.
 keywords: {job shop scheduling;AOR;RSR;affected operations 
recheduling;deterministic job shop schedule;machine breakdowns;right-shift 
rescheduling;sequence-based constraints;time-optimal schedule;Delays;Electric 
breakdown;Job shop scheduling;Optimal scheduling;Robustness;Schedules;System 
performance},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497828&isnumber=7497815

W. M. Boussahel and G. Frey, "Priced discrete Automata for modeling energy 
efficient manufacturing systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete 
Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 79-84.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497829
Abstract: Cost optimization is a main concern of the industry nowadays and 
reducing the total energy input is one of the main ways to achieve it. Modeling 
through discrete event systems is a powerful tool to model complex human made 
systems often encountered in the manufacturing and model checkers offer a 
framework for the evaluation and optimization of such systems. A formalism is 
presented in the present paper to define a discrete version of Priced Timed 
Automata in the model checker PRISM by using an extension to discrete automata. 
Priced Timed Automata have been introduced as a formal way to study real time 
continuous systems. However, PRISM is a tool conceived for discrete automata but 
cannot handle the continuous priced automata directly due to its high 
restrictions in using the clock variables. The presented formalism offers an 
approach of modelling that gets around these restrictions.
 keywords: {automata theory;formal verification;manufacturing 
systems;optimisation;complex human made systems;continuous priced automata;cost 
optimization;discrete event systems;energy efficient manufacturing 
systems;energy input;formalism;industry;model checker PRISM;model 
checkers;modelling;priced discrete automata;priced timed automata;real time 
continuous systems;Automata;Clocks;Energy efficiency;Industries;Mathematical 
model;Optimization;Planning;PRISM model checker;cost optimization;discrete event 
systems;priced timed automata},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497829&isnumber=7497815

J. Komenda and F. Lin, "Modular supervisory control of networked discrete-event 
systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), 
Xi'an, 2016, pp. 85-90.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497830
Abstract: In this paper, modular and more generally coordination supervisory 
control of networked concurrent discrete-event systems (DES) is studied. We are 
interested in comparison of monolithic control synthesis with modular control 
synthesis if communication delays in both control and observation channels are 
taken into account. It is shown that unlike standard DES framework, modular, and 
more generally, coordination control can be more permissive than monolithic 
control in some cases because of smaller communication delays in the local 
systems.
 keywords: {control system synthesis;discrete event systems;networked control 
systems;communication delays;coordination control;coordination supervisory 
control;local systems;modular control synthesis;modular supervisory 
control;monolithic control synthesis;networked concurrent discrete event 
systems;observation channels;standard DES 
framework;Controllability;Delays;Discrete-event 
systems;Generators;Gold;Observability;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497830&isnumber=7497815

R. Malik and M. Teixeira, "Modular supervisor synthesis for extended 
finite-state machines subject to controllability," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 91-96.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497831
Abstract: This paper proposes an algorithm for the synthesis of modular 
supervisors using extended finite-state machines, i.e., state machines with 
variables and guards on the transitions. Synthesis is performed by iteratively 
selecting components from a synchronous composition until a least restrictive 
controllable solution is obtained. This method is usually faster and produces 
smaller supervisors than standard monolithic synthesis, while offering the 
modelling benefits of variables. An example of manufacturing system control 
illustrates the approach.
 keywords: {control system synthesis;controllability;finite state 
machines;controllability;extended finite-state machines;least restrictive 
controllable solution;modular supervisor synthesis;synchronous 
composition;Automata;Complexity theory;Controllability;Cost 
accounting;Silicon;Standards;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497831&isnumber=7497815

T. Jiao, Y. Gan, Guochun Xiao and W. M. Wonham, "Exploiting symmetry of state 
tree structures for discrete-event systems with parallel components," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
97-102.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497832
Abstract: We consider discrete-event systems (DES) consisting of parallel arrays 
of machines and buffers. The machines are divided into groups in each of which 
the members have identical structure, i.e. same state set and isomorphic 
transitions. In these systems, to avoid the underflow or overflow of the 
buffers, the controller only needs the information of the total numbers of 
components at each state and the numbers of workpieces in the buffers. By 
exploiting the identical structure of each group, we extract such control 
information from the control functions computed by the state tree structures 
(STS) to generate abstract control functions. Thanks to the symmetry of the 
system, we show that all controllable events relabeled to the same symbol share 
an invariant abstract control function, which is independent of the total number 
of machines, as long as the buffer sizes are fixed. The approach is illustrated 
by two examples.
 keywords: {discrete event systems;DES;STS;abstract control function 
generation;buffer overflow avoidance;buffer underflow avoidance;discrete-event 
systems;invariant abstract control function;parallel arrays;parallel 
components;state tree structures;Automata;Conferences;Discrete-event 
systems;Power capacitors;Software;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497832&isnumber=7497815

J. Komenda, T. Masopust and J. H. van Schuppen, "Control of an 
engineering-structured multilevel discrete-event system," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
103-108.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497833
Abstract: Control of a multilevel system is developed for a discrete-event 
system (DES) structured by an engineering model. In a multilevel system, each 
subsystem has a set of children at the next-lower level and a unique parent at 
the next-higher level. A coordinated multilevel DES is defined by the condition 
that a parent also is involved in the interaction of each tuple of its children. 
Control synthesis is carried out per subsystem. If the specification language is 
conditionally decomposable, conditionally controllable, and conditionally normal 
then there exists a set of supervisors such that the closed-loop system of the 
multilevel system meets the specification. The complexity gain is considerable. 
The examples of an MRI scanner and of a vehicle system illustrate the approach.
 keywords: {closed loop systems;control system synthesis;discrete event 
systems;DES;MRI scanner;closed-loop system;complexity gain;control 
synthesis;engineering model;engineering-structured multilevel discrete-event 
system;specification language;Computer architecture;Control 
systems;Discrete-event systems;Indexes;Magnetic resonance imaging;Multilevel 
systems;Vehicles},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497833&isnumber=7497815

J. Benhamron and J. G. Thistle, "Graph transformation as a modelling framework 
for supervisory control," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 109-116.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497834
Abstract: To make the techniques of supervisory control theory more accessible 
to non-experts, an intuitive and user-friendly modelling approach is needed to 
dissociate the modeller from the abstract automaton models used within the 
theory. This paper attempts to resolve this issue by presenting a modelling 
framework based upon graph rewriting, in which so-called implicit automaton 
models are used to generate automata that can be used as input to supervisory 
synthesis algorithms. It is demonstrated how the proposed modelling approach can 
be supported by a graph transformation tool such as GROOVE which implements the 
graph rewriting modelling paradigm.
 keywords: {control system synthesis;graph theory;abstract automaton 
models;graph rewriting;graph transformation;implicit automaton model;supervisory 
control modelling framework;supervisory synthesis algorithms;Analytical 
models;Automata;Computational modeling;Graph theory;Sections;Software 
tools;Supervisory control;Graph transformation systems (GTS);automata;category 
theory;modeling},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497834&isnumber=7497815

J. N. Vilela and P. N. Pena, "Supervisor abstraction to deal with planning 
problems in manufacturing systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete 
Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 117-122.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497835
Abstract: Finite-state automata and Supervisory Control Theory have been used to 
model and solve job-shop scheduling and planning problems. However, even if it 
seems to be easier to work with DFA and SCT, this solution will suffer with “the 
curse of dimensionality”, which can cause state explosion when the system 
becomes bigger and more complex. This paper presents a set of sufficient 
conditions that allow to work with abstractions of the supervisor, instead of 
the supervisor itself, as the search universe to solve a planning problem. Such 
abstraction is the natural projection of the supervisor into the set of 
controllable events and it should satisfy the observer property. This 
abstraction is smaller then the original automaton, which reduces the search 
universe for the optimization algorithms. Also, we present a set of conditions 
for the model of the system and specifications that will results on the 
satisfaction of the observer property.
 keywords: {controllability;finite automata;job shop scheduling;manufacturing 
systems;observers;optimisation;planning;process control;search problems;set 
theory;controllable events;finite-state automata;job-shop 
scheduling;manufacturing systems;observer property;optimization 
algorithms;planning problems;search problem;sufficient conditions;supervisor 
abstractions;Automata;Job shop scheduling;Observers;Planning;Silicon;Supervisory 
control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497835&isnumber=7497815

Y. Peng, M. C. Fu and J. Q. Hu, "Estimating distribution sensitivity using 
generalized likelihood ratio method," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 123-128.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497836
Abstract: We propose a generalized likelihood ratio estimator for the 
distribution sensitivity in a general framework. Applications on quantile 
sensitivity, sensitivity of distortion risk measure, and gradient-based maximum 
likelihood estimation are put together under a single umbrella, and addressed 
uniformly by the proposed estimator. Numerical experiments substantiate the 
efficiency of the new method.
 keywords: {gradient methods;maximum likelihood estimation;sensitivity 
analysis;distortion risk measure sensitivity;distribution 
sensitivity;generalized likelihood ratio estimator;generalized likelihood ratio 
method;gradient-based maximum likelihood estimation;quantile 
sensitivity;Distortion;Distortion measurement;Maximum likelihood 
estimation;Perturbation methods;Random variables;Sensitivity;Stochastic 
processes;distribution sensitivity;likelihood ratio method;perturbation 
analysis;simulation;stochastic derivative estimation},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497836&isnumber=7497815

J. Mao and C. G. Cassandras, "Solving a class of discrete event simulation-based 
optimization problems using “optimality in probability”," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
129-134.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497837
Abstract: We approach a class of discrete event simulation-based optimization 
problems using optimality in probability, an approach which yields what is 
termed a “champion solution”. Compared to the traditional optimality in 
expectation, this approach favors the solution whose actual performance is more 
likely better than that of any other solution; this is an effective alternative 
to the traditional optimality sense, especially when facing a dynamic and 
nonstationary environment. Moreover, using optimality in probability is 
computationally promising for a class of discrete event simulation-based 
optimization problems, since it can reduce computational complexity by orders of 
magnitude compared to general simulation-based optimization methods using 
optimality in expectation. Accordingly, we have developed an “Omega Median 
Algorithm” in order to effectively obtain the champion solution and to fully 
utilize the efficiency of well-developed off-line algorithms to further 
facilitate timely decision making. An inventory control problem with 
nonstationary demand is included to illustrate and interpret the use of the 
Omega Median Algorithm, whose performance is tested using simulations.
 keywords: {computational complexity;decision making;discrete event 
simulation;optimisation;probability;champion solution;computational 
complexity;decision making;discrete event simulation-based optimization 
problems;general simulation-based optimization methods;inventory control 
problem;nonstationary demand;off-line algorithms;omega median 
algorithm;optimality 
sense;optimality-in-expectation;optimality-in-probability;Complexity 
theory;Decision making;Games;Heuristic algorithms;Inventory control;Optimization 
methods;Nonstationary Inventory Control;Optimality in 
Probability;Simulation-based Optimization},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497837&isnumber=7497815

F. Vázquez-Abad and S. Bernabel, "Stochastic path optimization for robotic bees 
using cloud computing," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 135-140.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497838
Abstract: We study the problem of dynamic routing of robotic bees towards the 
hive, with the intended purpose of minimizing the time it takes for all the bees 
to arrive at the destination. Due to uncertainty in position measurements, the 
stochastic problem cannot ensure collision-free paths. We study the effects that 
the algorithm parameters have in reducing the computational complexity and 
expected number of collisions. The dynamic path allocation assumes signals are 
received every ε units of time. We provide a weak convergence proof that the 
stochastic dynamic allocation converges to the optimal deterministic path when ε 
→ 0. Next we explore via experimentation how the various algorithm parameters 
affect the overall performance. A k-nearest neighbors strategy is implemented to 
lessen the need for small step size ε and safety parameter. Δ. In this manner we 
achieve a faster completion time, reduce collisions and computational 
complexity.
 keywords: {cloud computing;collision avoidance;computational complexity;control 
engineering computing;mobile robots;stochastic programming;cloud 
computing;collision-free paths;computational complexity;dynamic path 
allocation;dynamic routing;k-nearest neighbors strategy;optimal deterministic 
path;position measurements;robotic bees;stochastic dynamic allocation;stochastic 
path optimization;stochastic problem;time minimization;weak convergence 
proof;Clustering algorithms;Collision avoidance;Optimization;Resource 
management;Robots;Safety;Stochastic processes},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497838&isnumber=7497815

X. Chen, Y. Wardi and S. Yalamanchili, "IPA in the loop: Control design for 
throughput regulation in computer processors," 2016 13th International Workshop 
on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 141-146.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497839
Abstract: A new technique for performance regulation in event-driven systems, 
recently proposed by the authors, consists of an adaptive-gain integral control. 
The gain is adjusted in the control loop by a real-time estimation of the 
derivative of the plant-function with respect to the control input. This 
estimation is carried out by Infinitesimal Perturbation Analysis (IPA). The main 
motivation comes from applications to throughput regulation in computer 
processors, where to-date, the testing of the proposed control technique has 
been assessed by simulation. The purpose of this paper is to report on its 
implementation on Intel's Haswell microprocessor, and compare its performance to 
that obtained from cycle-level, full system simulation environment. The 
intrinsic contribution of the paper to the Workshop on Discrete Event Systems is 
in describing the process of taking an IPA-based design and simulation to a 
concrete implementation, thereby providing a bridge between theory and 
applications.
 keywords: {adaptive control;control engineering computing;control system 
synthesis;estimation theory;microprocessor chips;perturbation techniques;Haswell 
microprocessor;IPA-based design;adaptive-gain integral control;computer 
processor;event-driven system;infinitesimal perturbation 
analysis;plant-function;throughput regulation;Clocks;Computational 
modeling;Computer architecture;Computers;Out of order;Real-time 
systems;Throughput},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497839&isnumber=7497815

S. Ware and R. Su, "Incremental scheduling of discrete event systems," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
147-152.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497840
Abstract: A common problem in the field of robotics is how to coordinate the 
motion of multiple robots. As this problem is PSPACE-complete it is generally 
solved by incomplete algorithms which are computationally tractable but cannot 
guarantee that a solution will be found even if a solution exists. In this work 
we use the coordination method of prioritized planning in a (Discrete Event 
Systems) DES context. We develop and implement an algorithm for using 
prioritized planning in DES. The algorithm is showned to be an improvement over 
the standard prioritized planning approach in terms of being capable of finding 
a valid solution to the multi-robot motion-planning problem in a greater 
percentage of instances.
 keywords: {control engineering computing;discrete event systems;mobile 
robots;motion control;multi-robot systems;path 
planning;scheduling;DES;PSPACE-complete;discrete event systems;incremental 
scheduling;motion control;motion planning;multiple robots;prioritized 
planning;Algorithm design and analysis;Automata;Collision 
avoidance;Context;Planning;Robot kinematics},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497840&isnumber=7497815

J. Berkhout, "Google's PageRank algorithm for ranking nodes in general 
networks," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), 
Xi'an, 2016, pp. 153-158.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497841
Abstract: This paper extends the random surfer approach of Google's PageRank 
algorithm to general finite Markov chains that may consist of several ergodic 
classes and possible transient states. We will introduce the new concept of an 
extended ergodic projector of a Markov chain and we will show how the extended 
ergodic projector allows for intuitive better ranking of transient states. 
Numerical examples are provided to illustrate the effect of this new ranking 
approach.
 keywords: {Markov processes;network theory (graphs);search engines;Google 
PageRank algorithm;ergodic classes;extended ergodic projector;general finite 
Markov chains;general networks;random surfer approach;ranking approach;ranking 
nodes;transient states;Convergence;Damping;Google;Limiting;Markov 
processes;Social network services;Transient analysis;Google PageRank;Markov 
multi-chains;random surfer;transient states},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497841&isnumber=7497815

J. A. Fraustro, J. Ruiz-León, C. R. Vázquez and A. Ramírez-Treviño, "Structural 
fault diagnosis in Timed Continuous Petri Nets," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 159-164.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497842
Abstract: This work addresses the fault detection and isolation problem in 
systems modeled by Timed Continuous Petri Nets (TCPN) under the infinite server 
semantics. The proposed approach assumes that the normal behavior TCPN model is 
available and partially observed (i.e., only the marking of a subset of places 
is available). Potential product rejection faults and speed reduction faults are 
represented by transitions, whose firing characterize the occurrence of the 
corresponding faults. Based on this model, a novel structural characterization 
of diagnosable TCPN is presented. This characterization is based on the 
structural observability of places belonging to directed paths, between 
measurable places, containing information about the firing of the fault 
transitions. In order to isolate faults, a diagnoser is also proposed in this 
work. The diagnoser is based on a set of robust reduced order finite-time 
observers. The faults are isolated using internal signals in the observers that 
are different from zero when a specific fault occurs.
 keywords: {Petri nets;fault diagnosis;observability;observers;reliability 
theory;TCPN;directed paths;fault detection and isolation problem;fault 
transitions;infinite server semantics;product rejection faults;robust reduced 
order finite-time observers;speed reduction faults;structural 
characterization;structural fault diagnosis;structural observability;timed 
continuous Petri nets;Fault detection;Manufacturing systems;Mathematical 
model;Observability;Observers;Petri nets;Diagnosis and Fault Detection;Hybrid 
Systems;Petri Nets},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497842&isnumber=7497815

A. Al-Ajeli and B. Bordbar, "Fourier-Motzkin method for failure diagnosis in 
Petri Net models of discrete event systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 165-170.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497843
Abstract: This paper presents a new technique for failure diagnosis in partially 
observable discrete event systems modelled as Petri nets. In this new technique 
we adopt Integer Fourier-Motzkin Elimination (IFME) method. We start with a 
Petri net and produce the state equations. The state equations are a set of 
integer valued inequalities in variables that represent number of firing of 
transitions. Occurrences of failure can also be expressed by inequalities. Then 
we extend the set of inequalities obtained from the state equations to two new 
sets. The first is created from adding the inequality for failure. The second is 
created from adding the negation of the inequality for failure. Applying the 
IFME method to the two resulting sets of inequalities, the variables 
corresponding to unobservable transitions will be eliminated. Then we prove that 
for acyclic Petri nets, the reduced set of inequalities after the elimination 
can be used to diagnose failures.
 keywords: {Fourier series;Petri nets;discrete event systems;IFME method;Petri 
net model;acyclic Petri nets;failure diagnosis;integer Fourier-Motzkin 
elimination;integer valued inequalities;partially observable discrete event 
system;state equation;Artificial neural networks;Automata;Computer science;Cost 
accounting;Discrete-event systems;Mathematical model;Petri nets},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497843&isnumber=7497815

B. Li, M. Khlif-Bouassida and A. Toguyéni, "Diagnosis and diagnosability 
analysis of labeled Petri nets using reduction rules," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 171-176.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497844
Abstract: This paper addresses the combinatorial explosion problem for 
diagnosability analysis of discrete event systems (DESs). Some reduction rules 
are given to simplify a priori the labeled Petri net (LPN) model before 
analyzing the diagnosability. When the conditions of these reduction rules are 
satisfied, some regular unobservable transitions and some places, that do not 
contain necessary information for the diagnosability analysis, are removed. It 
is proved the diagnosability of the initial LPN is preserved by using these 
reduction rules. In this paper, the “diagnoser” approach is used to compare the 
diagnosability analysis of the initial LPN model and that of the reduced LPN 
model. By using reduction rules, the memory cost for diagnosability analysis is 
reduced.
 keywords: {Petri nets;discrete event systems;DES;combinatorial explosion 
problem;diagnoser approach;discrete event systems;initial LPN model;labeled 
Petri net diagnosability analysis;labeled Petri net diagnosis;memory cost 
reduction;reduced LPN model;reduction rules;regular unobservable 
transitions;Analytical models;Complex systems;Discrete-event 
systems;Explosions;Fault diagnosis;Mathematical model;Petri nets;Diagnosability 
analysis;Discrete event system;Fault diagnosis;Labeled Petri net;Reduction 
rules},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497844&isnumber=7497815

M. Ghazel and B. Liu, "A customizable railway benchmark to deal with fault 
diagnosis issues in DES," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 177-182.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497845
Abstract: This paper aims to develop a suite of customizable Petri net 
benchmarks to deal with various issues pertaining to fault diagnosis in discrete 
event systems. As reported in previous studies, the existing benchmarks 
generally characterize some of the numerous issues concerning fault diagnosis. 
This satisfies a specific case study, whereas it may constitute a barrier when 
performing comparative analysis between different approaches. In order to bridge 
this gap, we propose to develop a suite of benchmarks based on the same case 
study, while covering a wide spectrum of diagnosis issues, namely diagnosability 
according to the original definition, K-diagnosability, diagnosability under 
fairness conditions, of intermittent faults and in timed context. The benchmark 
elaborated, based on a level crossing case study, can be enlarged to deal with 
the combinatorial explosion problem. In addition, it can be extended to 
integrate additional features. A software tool is provided to generate 
benchmarks, according to the target issues one seeks to tackle, and the desired 
size of the model.
 keywords: {Petri nets;discrete event systems;fault diagnosis;rail 
traffic;DES;K-diagnosability;combinatorial explosion problem;customizable Petri 
net benchmarks;customizable railway benchmark;discrete event systems;fairness 
condition;fault diagnosis;level crossing case study;Benchmark 
testing;Discrete-event systems;Fault diagnosis;Petri nets;Rail 
transportation;Roads;Sensors},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497845&isnumber=7497815

T. Soleymani, S. Hirche and J. S. Baras, "Optimal self-driven sampling for 
estimation based on value of information," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 183-188.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497846
Abstract: Consider an observer (reporter) who desires to inform optimally a 
distant agent regarding a physical stochastic process in the environment while 
the directed communication of the observer to the agent has a price. We define a 
metric, from a task oriented perspective, for the information transferred from 
the observer to the agent. We develop a framework for optimizing an augmented 
cost function which is a convex combination of the transferred information and 
the paid price over a finite horizon. We suppose that the decision making takes 
place inside a source encoder, and that the sampling schedule is the decision 
variable. Moreover, we assume that no measurement at the current time is 
available to the observer for the decision making. We derive the optimal 
self-driven sampling policy using dynamic programming, and we show that this 
policy corresponds to a self-driven sampling policy based on a quantity that is 
in fact the value of information at each time instant. In addition, we use a 
semi-definite programming relaxation to provide a suboptimal sampling policy. 
Numerical and simulation results are presented for a simple unstable system.
 keywords: {convex programming;decision making;dynamic programming;estimation 
theory;information theory;sampling methods;stochastic processes;augmented cost 
function;convex combination;decision making;directed communication;dynamic 
programming;estimation;information transfer;optimal self-driven 
sampling;physical stochastic process;sampling schedule;semidefinite 
programming;task oriented perspective;value of information;Cost function;Current 
measurement;Decision making;Observers;Schedules;Time measurement;Approximate 
Dynamic Programming;Estimation;Self-Driven Sampling;Value of Information},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497846&isnumber=7497815

S. Ebner and S. Trimpe, "Communication rate analysis for event-based state 
estimation," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), 
Xi'an, 2016, pp. 189-196.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497847
Abstract: The average communication in a typical event-based state estimation 
scenario is analyzed analytically and in robot experiments. A sender observes a 
linear Gaussian process and sporadically transmits mean and variance to a remote 
estimator according to an event-based protocol. By exploiting the event-based 
architecture, an expression for the average communication rate is obtained, 
which is useful for numerical computation. In addition, approximate closed-form 
expressions for the steady-state rate (given in terms of problem and design 
parameters) are derived. The analytic results for the communication rate are 
verified in experiments of a one-dimensional robot link.
 keywords: {Gaussian processes;robots;state estimation;statistical 
analysis;approximate closed-form expression;communication rate 
analysis;event-based protocol;event-based state estimation;linear Gaussian 
process;mean;one-dimensional robot link;variance;Closed-form solutions;Computer 
architecture;Receivers;Robots;State estimation;Steady-state},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497847&isnumber=7497815

Y. Khazaeni and C. G. Cassandras, "Event excitation for event-driven control and 
optimization of multi-agent systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 197-202.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497848
Abstract: We consider event-driven methods in a general framework for the 
control and optimization of multi-agent systems, viewing them as stochastic 
hybrid systems. Such systems often have feasible realizations in which the 
events needed to excite an on-line event-driven controller cannot occur, 
rendering the use of such controllers ineffective. We show that this commonly 
happens in environments which contain discrete points of interest which the 
agents must visit. To address this problem in event-driven gradient-based 
optimization problems, we propose a new metric for the objective function which 
creates a potential field guaranteeing non-zero gradient values when no events 
are present and which results in eventual event excitation. We apply this 
approach to the class of cooperative multi-agent data collection problems using 
the event-driven Infinitesimal Perturbation Analysis (IPA) methodology and 
include numerical examples illustrating its effectiveness.
 keywords: {gradient methods;multi-robot systems;optimisation;perturbation 
techniques;stochastic systems;IPA methodology;cooperative multiagent data 
collection problems;event excitation;event-driven control;event-driven 
gradient-based optimization problems;event-driven ifinitesimal perturbation 
analysis;event-driven methods;multiagent systems;nonzero gradient 
values;stochastic hybrid systems;Dynamics;Linear 
programming;Measurement;Multi-agent systems;Optimization;Space 
missions;Trajectory},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497848&isnumber=7497815

B. Demirel, V. Gupta, D. E. Quevedo and M. Johansson, "Threshold optimization of 
event-triggered multi-loop control systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 203-210.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497849
Abstract: This paper considers multiple linear stochastic control systems whose 
feedback loops are closed over a shared communication medium. A threshold-based 
event-triggering rule is used to transmit control commands from the controllers 
to the actuators, and network access is arbitrated using a static priority 
mechanism. Under these conditions, we study dead-beat control laws and compute 
the expected linear-quadratic loss of the closed-loop system as a function of 
the event-thresholds of the individual loops. Also, we present analytical 
expressions that quantify the trade-off between the communication cost and the 
control performance of such event-triggered control systems. Using a 
multi-dimensional exhaustive search method, we determine the set of event 
thresholds that attains the minimal expected linear-quadratic loss of the 
closed-loop systems. Simulation studies highlight the trade-off between the 
communication and control cost.
 keywords: {closed loop systems;feedback;linear quadratic control;linear 
systems;optimisation;search problems;stochastic systems;closed-loop 
system;dead-beat control laws;event thresholds;event-triggered multiloop control 
systems;feedback loops;individual loop event-thresholds;linear stochastic 
control systems;linear-quadratic loss;multidimensional exhaustive search 
method;network access;shared communication medium;static priority 
mechanism;threshold optimization;threshold-based event-triggering 
rule;Actuators;Communication channels;Gaussian distribution;Markov 
processes;Process control;Random variables;Deadbeat control;Event-triggered 
control;Shared communication channel},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497849&isnumber=7497815

D. Maity and J. S. Baras, "Strategies for two-player differential games with 
costly information," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 211-216.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497850
Abstract: In this work, a two players nonzero-sum differential game is 
considered, where one player tries to minimize some predefined cost and the 
other tries to maximize the same. The game is described by a stochastic 
differential system and the actions of the players serve as the control inputs 
to the dynamical system. The cost being a function of the actions chosen by the 
players and the state of the dynamical system, the players aim to control the 
state in order to optimize the cost functional. However in this problem the 
players do not have the access to the states for every time, rather the states 
are available at discrete time instances after some finite costs are paid by the 
players. The inclusion of the information-cost makes the structure of the cost 
functional non-classical. The work presents the strategies for the players under 
no-cost information access as well as under costly information access. Explicit 
time instances for the information access are also derived by solving certain 
finite dimensional optimization problems.
 keywords: {game theory;optimisation;cost functional;costly information 
access;finite dimensional optimization problems;information-cost;no-cost 
information access;stochastic differential system;two-player differential 
games;Closed-form solutions;Cost function;Games;Mathematical model;Nash 
equilibrium},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497850&isnumber=7497815

C. E. V. Nunes, M. V. Moreira, M. V. S. Alves and J. C. Basilio, "Network 
codiagnosability of Discrete-Event Systems subject to event communication 
delays," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), 
Xi'an, 2016, pp. 217-223.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497851
Abstract: Failure diagnosis is a crucial task in modern industrial systems, and 
several works in the literature address this problem by modeling the system as a 
Discrete-Event System. Most of them assumes perfect communication between 
sensors and diagnosers, i:e:, no loss of observation of events, or event 
communication delays between the measurement sites and the diagnosers. However, 
industrial systems can be large and physically distributed. In these cases, 
communication networks can be used to provide an efficient way to establish 
communication between devices with a view to diagnosing failure occurrence. The 
use of networks can introduce delays in the communication of event occurrences 
to local diagnosers, leading to an incorrect observation of the order of 
occurrence of events generated by the system and, consequently, an incorrect 
diagnosis decision by the local diagnoser. In this paper, we address the problem 
of decentralized diagnosis of networked Discrete-Event Systems subject to event 
communication delays, and we introduce the definition of network 
codiagnosability of the language of a system subject to event communication 
delays. We also propose an algorithm to verify this property.
 keywords: {delays;discrete event systems;fault diagnosis;fault tolerant 
control;networked control systems;communication networks;decentralized 
diagnosis;diagnosis decision;event communication delays;failure 
diagnosis;failure occurrence;industrial systems;local diagnoser;network 
codiagnosability;networked discrete-event systems;system 
modeling;Automata;Communication channels;Communication 
networks;Delays;Discrete-event systems;Loss measurement;Protocols},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497851&isnumber=7497815

S. Takai and R. Kumar, "Delay bound of inference-based decentralized diagnosis 
in discrete event systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 224-229.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497852
Abstract: We previously introduced an inference-based decentralized diagnosis 
framework for discrete event systems, where inferencing over the ambiguities of 
the self and the others is used to issue local decisions, and a global decision 
is taken to be the one with the least ambiguity level. In this setting, we 
introduced the notion of N-inference diagnosability to characterize the 
detection of any failure within a bounded delay, using at most N-levels of 
inferencing, and subsuming both disjunctive and conjunctive ways of decision 
fusions. In this paper, we compute the delay bound within which the occurrence 
of any failure can be detected for an N-inference diagnosable system. Computing 
the delay bound is important to execute mitigation actions in a timely manner, 
and is a figure of merit of a diagnosis scheme.
 keywords: {control engineering computing;discrete event systems;inference 
mechanisms;N-inference diagnosability;N-inference diagnosable system;decision 
fusion;delay bound;discrete event system;inference-based decentralized 
diagnosis;Automata;Decision making;Delays;Discrete-event systems;Electronic 
mail;Sensors;System recovery},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497852&isnumber=7497815

E. Fabre, L. Hélouët, E. Lefaucheux and H. Marchand, "Diagnosability of 
repairable faults," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 230-236.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497853
Abstract: The diagnosis problem for discrete event systems consists in deciding 
whether some fault event occurred or not in the system, given partial 
observations on the run of that system. Diagnosability checks whether a correct 
diagnosis can be issued in bounded time after a fault, for all faulty runs of 
that system. This problem appeared two decades ago and numerous facets of it 
have been explored, mostly for permanent faults. It is known for example that 
diagnosability of a system can be checked in polynomial time, while the 
construction of a diagnoser is exponential. The present paper examines the case 
of transient faults, that can appear and be repaired. Diagnosability in this 
setting means that the occurrence of a fault should always be detected in 
bounded time, but also before the fault is repaired. Checking this notion of 
diagnosability is proved to be PSPACE-complete. It is also shown that faults can 
be reliably counted provided the system is diagnosable for faults and for 
repairs.
 keywords: {computational complexity;discrete event systems;fault 
diagnosis;reliability theory;PSPACE-complete;bounded time;diagnoser 
construction;diagnosis problem;discrete event systems;fault event 
occurrence;fault repair;faulty runs;permanent faults;polynomial time;repairable 
faults diagnosability;system diagnosability;transient 
faults;Automata;Discrete-event systems;Maintenance 
engineering;Observers;Standards;Transient analysis;Uncertainty},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497853&isnumber=7497815

A. Boussif, B. Liu and M. Ghazel, "A twin-plant based approach for 
diagnosability analysis of intermittent failures," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 237-244.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497854
Abstract: In this paper, an approach to analyze diagnosability of intermittent 
failures in discrete-event systems (DESs) is developed. The analysis is 
performed based on the twin-plant structure generated from the input model, 
which is a finite state automaton (FSA), where states are partitioned according 
to the predefined failure conditions of the system. Two definitions of 
diagnosability, regarding the occurrence of failures and their normalization 
(i.e., the disappearance of failures) are discussed. Necessary and sufficient 
conditions for diagnosability are developed and proved. Then, an incremental 
algorithm to actually check such conditions is elaborated. Finally, a benchmark 
is given to both illustrate the various concepts discussed and assess the 
efficiency of the proposed approach.
 keywords: {automata theory;discrete event systems;fault diagnosis;finite state 
machines;DES;FSA;diagnosability analysis;discrete event systems;finite state 
automaton;incremental algorithm;input model;intermittent failures;twin-plant 
based approach;twin-plant structure;Analytical models;Automata;Benchmark 
testing;Complexity theory;Delays;Discrete-event systems;Fault diagnosis},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497854&isnumber=7497815

M. Noori-Hosseini and B. Lennartson, "Diagnosability verification using 
compositional branching bisimulation," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 245-250.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497855
Abstract: This paper presents an efficient diagnosability verification 
technique, based on a general abstraction approach. More specifically, branching 
bisimulation including state labels with explicit divergence (BBSD) is defined. 
This bisimulation preserves the temporal logic property that verifies 
diagnosability. Based on a proposed BBSD algorithm, compositional abstraction 
for modular diagnosability verification is shown to offer a significant state 
space reduction in comparison to state-of-the-art techniques. This is 
illustrated by verifying non-diagnosability analytically for a set of 
synchronized components, where the abstracted solution is independent of the 
number of components and the number of observable events.
 keywords: {formal verification;temporal logic;BBSD;branching bisimulation 
including state labels with explicit divergence;compositional branching 
bisimulation;diagnosability verification technique;general abstraction 
approach;modular diagnosability verification;observable events;state space 
reduction;temporal logic property;Automata;Complexity theory;Computational 
modeling;Discrete-event systems;Model checking;Radio frequency;Synchronization},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497855&isnumber=7497815

M. Schuh and J. Lunze, "Fault-tolerant control of deterministic I/O automata 
with ambiguous diagnostic result," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete 
Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 251-257.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497856
Abstract: A method for the active fault-tolerant control of discrete event 
systems modeled by deterministic Input/Output automata is proposed that can be 
applied if the diagnostic result consists of a set of fault candidates rather 
than a single fault. Based on the ambiguous diagnostic result a common model of 
the faulty plant is constructed that describes the identical part of the 
behavior of the plant under all fault candidates. Then the reconfiguration of 
the controller is performed based on this common model. It is proved that the 
resulting reconfigured tracking controller steers the faulty plant into the 
desired final state, no matter which fault actually occurred.
 keywords: {deterministic automata;discrete event systems;fault tolerant 
control;active fault-tolerant control;ambiguous diagnostic result;deterministic 
I/O automata;deterministic input-output automata;discrete event 
system;reconfigured tracking controller;Automata;Discrete-event systems;Fault 
tolerance;Fault tolerant systems;Planning;Tracking loops;Trajectory},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497856&isnumber=7497815

D. You, S. Wang and C. Seatzu, "A new linear constraint transformation approach 
for Petri nets with uncontrollable transitions," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 258-263.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497857
Abstract: This work focuses on the problem of providing a linear algebraic 
characterization of the admissible marking set relative to a Petri net with 
uncontrollable transitions, subject to a linear constraint. More specifically, 
given a linear constraint that limits the number of tokens in one place, an 
algorithm is proposed to provide an approximation of the admissible marking set 
in terms of a disjunction of transformed linear constraints. The optimality of 
the solution is guaranteed provided that certain conditions are satisfied during 
the intermediate steps of the iterative approach.
 keywords: {Petri nets;discrete event systems;set theory;DES;Petri 
nets;admissible marking set approximation;discrete event system;iterative 
approach;linear algebraic characterization;linear constraint 
transformation;uncontrollable transitions;Fires;Firing;Iterative 
methods;Law;Monitoring;Petri nets;Discrete event systems;Petri nets;equivalent 
transformation;linear constraints},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497857&isnumber=7497815

Y. Yang and H. Hu, "Backward conflict free systems with resources and their 
distributed control using Petri nets," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 264-271.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497858
Abstract: One of the major concerns facing the modern engineering community is 
the development of efficient deadlock control policies for manufacturing 
systems, primarily because of the non-tractability and non-scalability of most 
existing control policies. Aiming to bring all active process instances to 
completion, this paper focuses on distributed control of systems integrating 
assembly operations with flexible routes. Each step's execution depends on the 
search of a feasible event sequence, leading the currently-active process 
instance from its current place to its nearest global critical place. In the 
context of this search, feedback information on the current resource allocation 
status, combined with information about future process resource requirements, 
are used to keep the currently-active process instance away from deadlock 
states. As we shall see in the following, such an on-line and real-time 
predictive control policy makes improvements on many perspectives such as 
computational complexity and system performance.
 keywords: {Petri nets;distributed control;manufacturing systems;predictive 
control;Petri nets;backward conflict free systems;computational 
complexity;deadlock control policies;deadlock states;distributed 
control;engineering community;event sequence;manufacturing systems;predictive 
control policy;process instance;Lead;Radio frequency;Weaving},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497858&isnumber=7497815

H. Liu, W. Wu, H. Su and Hongyong Yang, "A polynomial complexity deadlock 
avoidance method for a class of flexible manufacturing systems," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
272-277.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497859
Abstract: Computational complexity is one of most important criteria in 
evaluating the performance of deadlock control methods. Based on Petri net 
models, a polynomial deadlock avoidance method is addressed for a class of 
flexible manufacturing systems (FMSs) with key resources. It is first proved 
that there are three kinds of reachable markings in these FMSs: safe ones, 
deadlock, and secondary deadlock. Second, an algorithm with polynomial 
complexity to determine the safety of a new marking resulting from a safe one is 
presented. It adopts a one-step look-ahead method and two-step look-ahead one to 
prohibit the firings of transitions that result in deadlock and secondary one, 
respectively. Thus, a polynomial deadlock avoidance policy for a class of FMSs 
with key resources is established. An illustrative example is provided to 
demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed method.
 keywords: {Petri nets;computer aided manufacturing;flexible manufacturing 
systems;FMS;Petri net model;deadlock control;flexible manufacturing 
system;polynomial complexity deadlock avoidance;Complexity 
theory;Firing;Flexible manufacturing systems;Petri nets;Resource 
management;Safety;System recovery},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497859&isnumber=7497815

G. Desirena-López, C. R. Vázquez, J. L. Briz, A. Ramírez-Treviño and D. 
Gómez-Gutiérrez, "On-line scheduling in multiprocessor systems based on 
continuous control using Timed Continuous Petri Nets," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 278-283.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497860
Abstract: This work presents a fluid-time scheduler based on a sliding mode 
controller where the sliding surface is related to fluid task executions. The 
scheduler is applied to a model of tasks and CPUs designed with Timed Continuous 
Petri Nets (TCPN) under the infinite server semantics (ISS). Also, the paper 
proposes an implementation of this fluid scheduler as a feasible discrete 
scheduler where the number of task migrations and preemptions is bounded.
 keywords: {Petri nets;multiprocessing systems;processor scheduling;programming 
language semantics;variable structure systems;CPU;ISS;TCPN;continuous 
control;discrete scheduler;fluid task executions;fluid-time scheduler;infinite 
server semantics;multiprocessor systems;online scheduling;sliding mode 
controller;sliding surface;task migrations;task preemptions;timed continuous 
Petri nets;Mathematical model;Multiprocessing systems;Petri nets;Program 
processors;Real-time systems;Resource 
management;Schedules;Control;Modeling;Scheduling;TCPN},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497860&isnumber=7497815

K. Barkaoui, A. Hicheur, A. Kheldoun and Ding Liu, "Modelling and analyzing home 
care plans using high-level Petri nets," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 284-290.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497861
Abstract: Given the constant pressure to improve healthcare efficiency, home 
care appears as a unique solution for providing personalized healthcare service 
and home assistance for a growing number of elderly and chronic patients. Home 
care plans define the health cares or supportive cares delivered by the 
different home care professionals for a given patient. The management of these 
plans is challenging since they are inherently flexible, context dependent and 
cooperative processes involving repetitive activities with complex temporal 
expressions. In this paper, we propose a formal method based time recursive 
ECATNets for modelling and analyzing home care plans. The choice of this 
formalism relies on its ability in modelling flexible and distributed home care 
processes, with complex temporal constraints. Moreover, since time recursive 
ECATNets semantics are expressed in terms of conditional rewriting logic, we can 
use the Real Time MAUDE TCTL model checker to verify temporal properties of home 
care plan processes.
 keywords: {Petri nets;geriatrics;health care;patient care;chronic 
patients;complex temporal constraints;complex temporal expressions;conditional 
rewriting logic;cooperative processes;distributed home care processes;elderly 
patients;formal method based time recursive ECATNets;health cares;healthcare 
efficiency;high-level Petri nets;home assistance;home care plan processes;home 
care plans;home care professionals;personalized healthcare service;real time 
MAUDE TCTL model checker;repetitive activities;Analytical 
models;Automata;Context;Delays;Medical services;Petri nets;Real-time systems},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497861&isnumber=7497815

J. Wang, Xiaoou Li and Gaiyun Liu, "Cyclic workflow resource requirement 
analysis and application in healthcare," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 291-297.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497862
Abstract: In our previous work, we proposed a resource-oriented workflow nets 
(ROWN) approach for acyclic workflow resource requirement analysis. Resource 
requirements analysis for general workflows can be done through reachability 
analysis. For a class of well-structured workflows, an efficient resource 
analysis algorithm was also developed. In this paper, we discuss how to analyze 
the resource requirements of workflows with loops. The main idea is to convert a 
cyclic workflow into an equivalent acyclic workflow in terms of maximum resource 
requirements and net resource consumption. An application to emergency 
healthcare workflow resource requirement analysis is presented to illustrate how 
the approach works step-by-step.
 keywords: {health care;reachability analysis;workflow management software;ROWN 
approach;acyclic workflow resource requirement analysis;emergency healthcare 
workflow resource requirement analysis;equivalent acyclic workflow;maximum 
resource requirements;net resource consumption;reachability analysis;resource 
requirements analysis;resource-oriented workflow nets approach;well-structured 
workflows;Emergency services;Fires;Firing;Medical services;Petri 
nets;Reachability analysis;Silicon;Cyclic workflows;Petri nets;healthcare 
workflows;resource requirements analysis;resource-oriented workflow nets},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497862&isnumber=7497815

L. K. Carvalho, Y. C. Wu, R. Kwong and S. Lafortune, "Detection and prevention 
of actuator enablement attacks in supervisory control systems," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
298-305.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497863
Abstract: The deployment of control systems with network-connected components 
nowadays has made feedback control systems vulnerable to attacks over the 
network. This paper considers the problem of intrusion detection and prevention 
in supervisory control systems, where the attacker has the ability to enable 
vulnerable actuator events that are disabled by the supervisor. We present a 
mathematical model for the system under such actuator enablement attacks and 
propose a defense strategy that detects attacks online and disables all 
controllable events after an attack is detected. We develop an algorithm for 
verifying whether the system can prevent damage from attacks with the proposed 
defense strategy, where damage is modeled as the reachability of a pre-defined 
set of “unsafe” states. The technical condition of interest that is necessary 
and sufficient in this context is characterized; it is termed “AE-safe 
controllability”. Finally, we illustrate the methodology with a traffic system 
example.
 keywords: {controllability;feedback;mathematical analysis;security of 
data;AE-safe controllability;actuator enablement attacks detection;actuator 
enablement attacks prevention;actuator events;control systems deployment;defense 
strategy;feedback control systems;intrusion detection;intrusion 
prevention;mathematical model;network-connected components;supervisory control 
systems;unsafe states;Actuators;Automata;Closed loop 
systems;Controllability;Intrusion detection;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497863&isnumber=7497815

M. Yeddes, "Enforcing opacity with Orwellian observation," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
306-312.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497864
Abstract: In computer security, opacity is widely used and considered as a 
general language-theoretic scheme of many security properties of systems. A 
secret behaviour of a system is opaque if a passive attacker can never deduce 
its occurrence from the system observation. In [9], instead of considering the 
case of static observability where the set of observable events is fixed 
off-line or dynamic observability where the set of observable events changes 
over time depending on the history of the trace, we have introduced Orwellian 
partial observability where unobservable events are not revealed provided that 
downgrading events never occurs in the future of the trace. We show in the 
previous paper verifying opacity for regular secret is opaque for a regular 
language L w.r.t. an Orwellian projection is PSPACE-complete while it has been 
proved undecidable even for a regular language L w.r.t. a general Orwellian 
observation function. In this paper, we address two problems of opacification of 
a regular secret φ for a regular language L w.r.t. an Orwellian projection πo,d: 
Given L and a secret φ ∈ L, the first problem consists in computing some minimal 
regular super-language M of L, if it exists, such that φ is opaque for M w.r.t. 
πo,d and the second consists to compute the supremal sub-language M' of L such 
that φ is opaque for M' w.r.t. πo,d. We derive both language-theoretic 
characterizations and algorithms to solve the two problems.
 keywords: {computational linguistics;formal languages;observability;security of 
data;Orwellian partial observability;PSPACE-complete problem;computer 
security;language-theoretic characterizations;minimal regular 
super-language;opacity;passive attacker;regular language;security 
properties;supremal sub-language;Automata;Computer 
security;Conferences;Observability;Observers;Protocols;Formal 
verification;Minimal Super-language;Opacity;Orwellian observation;Security 
policies;Supremal Sub-language},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497864&isnumber=7497815

Y. Tong, Ziyue Ma, Z. Li, C. Seatzu and A. Giua, "Supervisory enforcement of 
current-state opacity with uncomparable observations," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 313-318.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497865
Abstract: Current-state opacity is a key security property in discrete event 
systems. A system is said to be current-state opaque if the intruder, who only 
has partial observations on the system's evolution, is never able to infer that 
the current state of the system is within a set of secret states. In this work, 
we address the problem of enforcing current-state opacity by supervisory 
control. Given a system that is modeled with a finite automaton and that is not 
current-state opaque with respect to a given secret, the enforcement problem 
consists in designing a supervisor so that the controlled system is 
current-state opaque. We assume that the supervisor can only observe and control 
a subset of events. To be more general, we assume no specific containment 
relationship exists between the sets of events that can be observed by the 
intruder and the supervisor, respectively. We call this general setting 
uncomparable observations. We show that the maximally permissive supervisor 
always exists and propose a novel approach for its design.
 keywords: {discrete event systems;finite automata;observers;current-state 
opacity;current-state opaque controlled system;discrete event systems;finite 
automaton;maximally permissive supervisor;supervisory control;uncomparable 
observations;Control theory;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497865&isnumber=7497815

B. Bérard, O. Kouchnarenko, J. Mullins and M. Sassolas, "Preserving opacity on 
Interval Markov Chains under simulation," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 319-324.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497866
Abstract: Given a probabilistic transition system (PTS) A partially observed by 
an attacker, and an ω-regular predicate φ over the traces of A, measuring the 
disclosure of the secret φ in A means computing the probability that an attacker 
who observes a run of A can ascertain that its trace belongs to φ. We consider 
specifications given as Interval Markov Chains (IMCs), which are underspecified 
Markov chains where probabilities on edges are only required to belong to 
intervals. Scheduling an IMC S produces a concrete implementation as a PTS and 
we define the worst case disclosure of secret φ in S as the maximal disclosure 
of φ over all PTSs thus produced. We compute this value for a subclass of IMCs 
and we prove that simulation between specifications can only improve the opacity 
of implementations.
 keywords: {Markov processes;cryptography;probability;simulation;ω-regular 
predicate;IMC;PTS;attacker;interval Markov chains;maximal disclosure;opacity 
preservation;probabilistic transition system;security 
requirements;simulation;worst case disclosure;Automata;Computational 
modeling;Context;Markov processes;Observers;Probabilistic logic;Semantics},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497866&isnumber=7497815

M. Schuh and J. Lunze, "Tracking control of deterministic I/O automata," 2016 
13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
325-331.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497867
Abstract: A tracking control framework for plants modeled by deterministic I/O 
automata is presented. The control aim is to steer the plant into a desired 
final state while at the same time guaranteeing its adherence to some safety 
constraints. It is proposed to control the plant by a tracking controller which 
consists of a trajectory planning unit and a controller. The trajectory planning 
unit searches for a reference trajectory that leads to the desired final state 
and avoids illegal transitions corresponding to safety constraints. The 
controller, which is modeled by a deterministic I/O automaton, steers the plant 
along this reference trajectory. It is proved that the plant in the closed-loop 
system with the proposed tracking controller always fulfills the given control 
aim, if it is controllable, that is, if there exists a path leading to the 
desired final state in the automaton graph of the plant without the illegal 
transitions.
 keywords: {closed loop systems;controllability;deterministic 
automata;trajectory control;automaton graph;closed-loop 
system;controllability;deterministic I/O automata;deterministic input/output 
automata;safety constraints;tracking control framework;trajectory planning 
unit;Automata;Closed loop 
systems;Controllability;Planning;Safety;Tracking;Trajectory},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497867&isnumber=7497815

L. Xia, "Optimization of parametric policies of Markov decision processes under 
a variance criterion," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 332-337.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497868
Abstract: The variance criterion is an uncommon while important criterion in 
Markov decision processes. The non-Markovian property caused by the nonlinear 
(quadratic) structure of variance function makes the traditional MDP approaches 
invalid for this problem. In this paper, we study the optimization of parametric 
policies of MDPs under the variance criterion, where the optimization parameters 
are the probabilities of selecting actions at each state. With the basic idea of 
sensitivity-based optimization, we derive a difference formula and a derivative 
formula of the reward variance with respect to the system parameter. The 
variance difference formula is fundamental for this problem and it partly 
handles the difficulty of nonlinear property of variance function through a 
nonnegative term. With these sensitivity formulas, we prove that the optimal 
policy with the minimal variance can be found in the deterministic policy space. 
A necessary condition of the optimal policy is also derived. Compared with the 
counterpart of gradient-based approaches in the literature, our approach can 
provide a clear viewpoint for this variance optimization problem.
 keywords: {Markov processes;decision theory;optimisation;probability;MDP;Markov 
decision processes;derivative formula;deterministic policy space;necessary 
condition;nonMarkovian property;nonlinear property;nonlinear structure;optimal 
policy;optimization parameters;parametric policies;probabilities;quadratic 
structure;reward variance;sensitivity-based optimization;system 
parameter;variance criterion;variance difference formula;variance function;Cost 
function;Markov processes;Renewable energy sources;Sensitivity;Standards;Markov 
decision process;discrete event system;parametric policy;sensitivity 
analysis;variance criterion},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497868&isnumber=7497815

X. Meng, J. Li and X. Dai, "Selection of solution strategies for colored 
traveling salesman problems with different city distribution," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
338-342.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497869
Abstract: The colored traveling salesman problem (CTSP) is a generalization of 
the well-known multiple traveling salesman problem. In CTSP, each salesman is 
allocated a particular color and each city carrying one to all salesmen' colors 
allows any salesman of the same color to visit exactly once. There are two 
strategies to address CTSP, i.e., the direct and transformed. The former is to 
solve a CTSP directly while the latter addresses it by decomposing it into 
simpler sub-problems first. Given a CTSP with different city color distribution, 
the solutions obtained by them may be different. We consider that there should 
be a certain regularity for selecting a proper solution strategy for a CTSP 
according to its city color distribution. This paper focuses on investigating 
such a regularity and establishes some principles for the solution strategies 
selection. First, we propose a city coloring scheme and algorithm for allocating 
proportionally different colors to the cities in each cluster. Then, we define a 
color dispersion degree as the percentage of color-changed cities in each city 
cluster. Finally, some experiments are conducted to track the regularity for 
selecting a proper strategy for solving a CTSP according to its city color 
distribution. The results show that the more scattered the city color 
distribution, the better the solution achieved by the direct strategy, using the 
same genetic algorithm. Also, it suggests that the solution algorithm combined 
with proximity operations, e.g., greedy operation, can efficiently accommodate 
the fluctuating city color distribution in CTSP.
 keywords: {genetic algorithms;travelling salesman problems;CTSP;city color 
distribution;city coloring scheme;color-changed cities;colored traveling 
salesman problems;direct strategy;genetic algorithm;greedy operation;multiple 
traveling salesman problem;proximity operations;salesmen colors;solution 
strategies;solution strategy;Clustering algorithms;Color;Dispersion;Genetic 
algorithms;Simulated annealing;Traveling salesman problems;Urban areas;City 
Color Distribution;Colored Traveling Salesman Problem;Genetic Algorithm;Greedy 
Algorithm;Simulated Annealing Algorithm},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497869&isnumber=7497815

W. Wei and Zheng Wang, "Integrated optimal production and energy control of a 
single machine and single product-type manufacturing system," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
343-348.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497870
Abstract: Reduction of energy consumption has attracted much attention of the 
researchers and practitioners in the field of sustainable manufacturing. 
However, the issue of integrated optimal production and energy control for 
sustainable manufacturing systems has not yet been investigated sufficiently. In 
this paper, we study such a problem for a single machine and single product-type 
manufacturing system, with the objective of minimizing the sum of production 
cost and energy consumption cost. To solve this problem, a Markov decision 
process model is developed, based on which, we obtain the integrated optimal 
production and energy control policy by the policy iteration method. 
Furthermore, we reveal the structural characteristics of optimal control policy 
and analyze the influence of system parameters on it by comparing different 
cases.
 keywords: {cost reduction;energy conservation;manufacturing systems;sustainable 
development;cost minimization;energy consumption cost;energy consumption 
reduction;energy control policy;optimal production policy;policy iteration 
method;production cost;single machine single product-type manufacturing 
system;sustainable manufacturing;Energy consumption;Manufacturing systems;Markov 
processes;Process control;Switches},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497870&isnumber=7497815

L. Bai, N. Wu, Z. Li and M. Zhou, "Buffer space configuration and scheduling 
analysis of single-arm multi-cluster tools," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 349-354.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497871
Abstract: This work studies the buffer space configuration problem to obtain an 
optimal one-wafer cyclic schedule for single-arm multi-cluster tools with a 
linear topology. To do so, a Petri net model is developed to describe the 
dynamic behavior of the system by extending the resource-oriented Petri nets 
such that a schedule can be parameterized with robots' waiting time. Based on 
this model, conditions for the existence of a one-wafer cyclic schedule with the 
lower bound of cycle time are presented, and algorithm is developed to find such 
an optimal schedule. The algorithm requires only simple calculation to set the 
robots' waiting time and configure the buffer spaces between two individual 
tools. An example is presented to show the application and power of the proposed 
method.
 keywords: {Petri nets;control engineering 
computing;robots;scheduling;topology;buffer space configuration;linear 
topology;optimal one-wafer cyclic schedule;resource-oriented Petri 
nets;robots;scheduling analysis;single-arm multicluster tools;Color;Job shop 
scheduling;Load modeling;Robots;Schedules;Semiconductor device modeling},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497871&isnumber=7497815

Z. Liu, N. Wu, F. Yang and Y. Qiao, "Optimal scheduling of time-constrained 
single-arm cluster tools with wafer revisiting," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 355-360.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497872
Abstract: It is very difficult to schedule a single-arm cluster tool with wafer 
revisiting such that wafer residency time constraints are satisfied. This paper 
conducts a study on this challenging problem for a single-arm cluster tool with 
atomic layer deposition (ALD) process. With a so called p-backward strategy 
being applied, a Petri net model is developed to describe the dynamic behavior 
of the system. Based on the model, existence of a feasible schedule is analyzed, 
schedulability conditions are derived, and a scheduling algorithm is presented 
if there is a schedule. A schedule is obtained by simply setting the robot 
waiting time and it is very computationally efficient. The obtained schedule is 
shown to be optimal. Illustrative examples are given to demonstrate the proposed 
approach.
 keywords: {Petri nets;atomic layer deposition;industrial 
manipulators;scheduling;semiconductor device manufacture;semiconductor 
technology;ALD process;Petri net model;atomic layer deposition process;dynamic 
behavior;optimal scheduling;p-backward strategy;robot waiting 
time;schedulability conditions;single-arm cluster tool 
scheduling;time-constrained single-arm cluster tools;wafer residency time 
constraints;wafer revisiting;Job shop scheduling;Optimal scheduling;Petri 
nets;Robots;Schedules;Semiconductor device modeling;Time factors},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497872&isnumber=7497815

X. Yin and S. Lafortune, "On two-way observer and its application to the 
verification of infinite-step and K-step opacity," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 361-366.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497873
Abstract: We investigate the verification of the properties of infinite-step 
opacity and K-step opacity for partially-observed discrete event systems. A 
system is said to be infinite-step opaque (respectively, K-step opaque) if the 
intruder can never determine for sure that the system was in a secret state for 
any instant within infinite steps (respectively, K steps) prior to that 
particular instant. We derive a new separation principle for state estimates 
which characterizes the information dependence in this opacity verification 
problem. A new information structure called the two-way observer is proposed. 
Based on the two-way observer, we provide new algorithms for the verification of 
infinite-step opacity and the verification of K-step opacity, respectively. We 
show that the proposed verification algorithms have lower computational 
complexity than the known algorithms in the literature.
 keywords: {discrete event systems;finite state machines;formal 
verification;K-step opacity verification;infinite-step opacity 
verification;infinite-step opaque;partially-observed discrete event 
system;separation principle;state estimates;two-way observer;Automata;Complexity 
theory;Computational modeling;Discrete-event 
systems;Observers;Privacy;Security},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497873&isnumber=7497815

C. N. Hadjicostis and C. Seatzu, "Decentralized state estimation in discrete 
event systems under partially ordered observation sequences," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
367-372.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497874
Abstract: We consider the problem of decentralized state estimation, where two 
or more observation sites send information to a coordinator who aims to 
determine the set of possible current states of a given discrete event system 
(DES). More specifically, we consider a DES (modeled as a nondeterministic 
finite automaton) whose underlying activity is partially observed at multiple 
observation sites that can gather information about different subsets of events. 
When these sites report to the coordinator the sequences of observations that 
they have recorded, the goal is to fuse this information and infer the possible 
current states of the given system. We discuss an efficient recursive algorithm 
that can perform this task with complexity that is captured by the product of 
the lengths of the observation sequences reported by the observation sites.
 keywords: {decentralised control;discrete event systems;finite automata;state 
estimation;DES;decentralized state estimation;discrete event systems;information 
fusion;nondeterministic finite automaton;partially-ordered observation 
sequences;recursive algorithm;Automata;Complexity theory;Discrete-event 
systems;Observers;Petri nets;Protocols},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497874&isnumber=7497815

M. Ibrahim, J. Chen and R. Kumar, "Quantification of distributed secrecy loss in 
stochastic discrete event systems under bounded-delay communications," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
373-378.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497875
Abstract: Unlike information, behaviors cannot be encrypted and may instead be 
protected by providing covers that generate indistinguishable observations from 
behaviors needed to be kept secret. Such a scheme may still leak information 
about secrets due to statistical difference between the occurrence probabilities 
of the secrets and their covers. Jensen-Shannon Divergence (JSD) is a possible 
means of quantifying statistical difference between two distributions and was 
used to measure such information leak as in our earlier work [1]. This paper 
studies secrecy quantification in stochastic partially-observed discrete event 
systems in the presence of distributed collusive attackers/observers, each with 
its own local partial observability, generalizing the setting of single observer 
in [1]. The local observers collude and exchange their observations over 
communication channels that introduce bounded delays. We propose a method to 
compute the JSD-based secrecy measure in this distributed setting by introducing 
bounded-delay channel models to extend the system model to capture the effect of 
exchange of observations, and to measure the distributed secrecy loss.
 keywords: {delays;discrete event 
systems;observability;observers;probability;statistical analysis;stochastic 
systems;telecommunication channels;JSD-based secrecy measure;Jensen-Shannon 
divergence;bounded-delay channel models;bounded-delay 
communications;communication channels;distributed collusive 
attackers/observers;distributed secrecy loss quantification;distributed 
setting;information leak;local observers;local partial observability;secrecy 
quantification;secret occurrence probabilities;statistical difference;stochastic 
partially-observed discrete event systems;Channel models;Delays;Discrete-event 
systems;Loss measurement;Mutual information;Observers;Stochastic processes},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497875&isnumber=7497815

C. Keroglou and C. N. Hadjicostis, "Probabilistic system opacity in discrete 
event systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 379-384.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497876
Abstract: In many emerging security applications, a system designer frequently 
needs to ensure that a certain property of a given system (that may reveal 
important details about the system's operation) be kept secret (opaque) to 
outside observers (eavesdroppers or intruders). Motivated by such applications, 
several researchers have formalized, analyzed, and described methods to verify 
notions of opacity in discrete event systems of interest. This paper introduces 
and analyzes a notion of opacity in systems that can be modeled as probabilistic 
finite automata or hidden Markov models. We consider a setting where a user 
needs to choose a specific hidden Markov model (HMM) out of m possible 
(different) HMMs, but would like to “hide” the true system from intruders, by 
not allowing them to have an arbitrary level certainty as to which system has 
been chosen. We describe necessary and sufficient conditions (that can be 
checked with polynomial complexity), under which the intruder cannot distinguish 
the true HMM, namely, the intruder cannot achieve a level of certainty about its 
decision that is above a certain threshold that we can a priori compute.
 keywords: {computational complexity;discrete event systems;finite 
automata;hidden Markov models;probabilistic automata;security of 
data;HMM;discrete event systems;eavesdroppers;hidden Markov 
models;intruders;polynomial complexity;probabilistic finite 
automata;probabilistic system opacity;security applications;system 
operation;Automata;Discrete-event systems;Hidden Markov models;Markov 
processes;Observers;Probabilistic logic;Probability},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497876&isnumber=7497815

M. Ibrahim, J. Chen and R. Kumar, "A resiliency measure for electrical power 
systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), 
Xi'an, 2016, pp. 385-390.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497877
Abstract: Providing a resiliency measure for power systems is one of the 
challenges towards its Dynamic Security Assessment. This paper introduces a 
resiliency measure, called Level-of-Resilience (LoR), determined by examining: 
(i) the Region-of- Stability-Reduction (RoSR), as the RoS evolves under attack 
and recovery actions as captured by a “modal-RoS”, (ii) the eventual 
Level-of-Performance-Reduction (LoPR), as measured by percentage of reduction of 
load served, and (iii) Recovery-Time (RT), which is the time system takes to 
detect and recover from an attack or a fault. We illustrate our measure by 
comparing resiliency level of two power systems under two different attack 
scenarios.
 keywords: {power system reliability;power system stability;LoPR;LoR 
measure;RoSR;electrical power 
systems;level-of-performance-reduction;level-of-resilience 
measure;modal-RoS;recovery-time;region-of-stability-reduction;resiliency 
measure;Admittance;Circuit faults;Generators;Power measurement;Power system 
stability;Resilience;Trajectory},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497877&isnumber=7497815

J. Niguez, S. Amari and J. M. Faure, "Analysis of Timed Automata with Guards in 
dioids algebra," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 391-397.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497878
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a new linear representation to model the 
behavior of Timed Automata with Guards (TAGs) using the formalism of dioids 
algebra. This linear modeling is used to define the parallel composition and 
properties of determinism for TAGs. The contribution is illustrated with an 
example of a jobshop to analyze the performances of this system.
 keywords: {algebra;automata theory;TAG;behavior model;determinism 
properties;dioids algebra;linear modeling;linear representation;parallel 
composition;timed automata with guards;Algebra;Analytical 
models;Automata;Clocks;Delays;Discrete-event systems;Timed automata with 
guards;dioids algebra;discrete event systems;linear representation},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497878&isnumber=7497815

J. Xu, L. Buşoniu, T. van den Boom and B. De Schutter, "Receding-horizon control 
for max-plus linear systems with discrete actions using optimistic planning," 
2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, 
pp. 398-403.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497879
Abstract: This paper addresses the infinite-horizon optimal control problem for 
max-plus linear systems where the considered objective function is a sum of 
discounted stage costs over an infinite horizon. The minimization problem of the 
cost function is equivalently transformed into a maximization problem of a 
reward function. The resulting optimal control problem is solved based on an 
optimistic planning algorithm. The control variables are the increments of 
system inputs and the action space is discretized as a finite set. Given a 
finite computational budget, a control sequence is returned by the optimistic 
planning algorithm. The first control action or a subsequence of the returned 
control sequence is applied to the system and then a receding-horizon scheme is 
adopted. The proposed optimistic planning approach allows us to limit the 
computational budget and also yields a characterization of the level of 
near-optimality of the resulting solution. The effectiveness of the approach is 
illustrated with a numerical example. The results show that the optimistic 
planning approach results in a lower tracking error compared with a 
finite-horizon approach when a subsequence of the returned control sequence is 
applied.
 keywords: {discrete event systems;infinite horizon;linear 
systems;minimisation;optimal control;control action;control sequence;control 
variables;cost function minimization problem;discounted stage costs;discrete 
action space;finite computational budget;infinite-horizon optimal control 
problem;max-plus linear systems;near-optimality level;objective 
function;optimistic planning algorithm;receding-horizon control;returned control 
sequence;reward function maximization problem;system inputs;Aerospace 
electronics;Algorithm design and analysis;Linear programming;Linear 
systems;Optimal control;Planning},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497879&isnumber=7497815

Y. Shang, L. Hardouin, M. Lhommeau and C. A. Maia, "Robust controllers in 
disturbance decoupling of uncertain max-plus linear systems: an application to a 
high throughput screening system for drug discovery," 2016 13th International 
Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 404-409.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497880
Abstract: This paper presents robust controllers solving the disturbance 
decoupling problem(DDP) of a class of uncertain max-plus linear systems, whose 
system matrices vary between intervals with known lower and upper bounds. The 
DDP for such uncertain max-plus linear systems is defined as finding a control 
interval such that the output trajectory interval for the disturbed controlled 
system belongs to the output trajectory interval for the undisturbed controlled 
system. In other words, the controls are able to absorb the effects of 
disturbances robustly for such systems. Both of the open-loop control intervals 
and the output feedback control intervals solving the DDP are constructed using 
the residuation theory and proved to be optimal for the just-in-time control 
criterion. The main results of this paper are illustrated by a high throughput 
screening system for drug discovery.
 keywords: {drugs;feedback;just-in-time;linear systems;matrix algebra;open loop 
systems;pharmaceutical industry;robust control;uncertain systems;DDP;disturbance 
decoupling problem;disturbed controlled system;drug discovery;high throughput 
screening system;just-in-time control criterion;open-loop control 
intervals;output feedback control intervals;output trajectory 
interval;residuation theory;robust controllers;system matrices;uncertain 
max-plus linear systems;Delays;Linear systems;Mathematical 
model;Robustness;Trajectory;Upper bound},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497880&isnumber=7497815

S. Moradi, L. Hardouin and J. Raisch, "Modeling and control of resource sharing 
problems in dioids," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 410-417.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497881
Abstract: The topic of this paper is the modeling and control of a class of 
timed Petri nets with resource sharing problems in a dioid framework. We first 
introduce a signal which denotes the number of resources available for each 
competing subsystem at each instant of time. Based on this signal, the overall 
system is modeled in min-plus algebra. Using residuation theory, an optimal 
control policy is developed, where optimality is in the sense of a 
lexicographical order reflecting the chosen prioritization of subsystems.
 keywords: {Petri nets;algebra;discrete event systems;linear systems;optimal 
control;dioid framework;lexicographical order;linear discrete event dynamical 
systems;min-plus algebra;optimal control policy;residuation theory;resource 
sharing problem control;resource sharing problem modeling;subsystem 
prioritization;timed Petri nets;Algebra;Optimal control;Petri nets;Resource 
management;Standards;Switches},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497881&isnumber=7497815

H. Hamri, R. Kara and S. Amari, "Multiparametric predictive control for a class 
of Discrete Event Systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 418-423.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497882
Abstract: The focus of this paper is to synthesise an optimal control law that 
allows to track a desired trajectory with respect to the constraints both on the 
control and state vectors for a class of Discrete Event Systems (DESs). For 
this, a geometric approach of a model predictive control is extended to a class 
of DESs modelled by P-time event graphs in the standard algebra using the dater 
equations. The use of the concept of (A, B)-invariance allows us to obtain the 
polyhedral parametric constraints. The constrained parametric model predictive 
control leads for a multiparametric quadratic programming (MP-QP) for which the 
solution is a feedback Piece-Wise Affine (PWA) control defined for different 
feasible regions.
 keywords: {algebra;discrete event systems;feedback;graph 
theory;invariance;optimal control;predictive control;quadratic 
programming;trajectory control;vectors;(A, B)-invariance;DES;MP-QP;P-time event 
graph;PWA control;constrained parametric model predictive control;discrete event 
system;feedback piecewise affine control;geometric approach;multiparametric 
predictive control;multiparametric quadratic programming;optimal control 
law;polyhedral parametric constraint;standard algebra;state vector;trajectory 
tracking;Adaptation models;Algebra;Discrete-event systems;Mathematical 
model;Petri nets;Predictive control;Standards},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497882&isnumber=7497815

F. Göbe, T. Timmermanns, O. Ney and S. Kowalewski, "Synthesis Tool for 
Automation Controller Supervision," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete 
Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 424-431.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497883
Abstract: The supervisory control theory is a conceptual framework to keep a 
discrete-event system in a desired state space by disabling controllable events. 
This paper introduces a new software tool to create supervisors for actual, 
physical plants in terms of a PLC code implementation. It points out the 
differences between SCT-synthesized supervisors and controllers and identifies a 
scenario in which practical applications can benefit from supervision. The 
presented tool provides a graphical user interface for the modeling and a 
template-based code generator. For safety specifications, a slightly altered 
automaton principle, called restricting specification, is used with the goal to 
decrease the manual modeling effort. Furthermore, event preemption is supported, 
which allows to permissively supervise controllers that react to uncontrollable 
events. This paper intends to give a brief overview of the key features of the 
tool.
 keywords: {control engineering computing;discrete event systems;formal 
specification;graphical user interfaces;PLC code;SCT-synthesized 
supervisors;automation controller supervision;automaton principle;discrete-event 
system;event preemption;graphical user interface;manual modeling effort;physical 
plants;restricting specification;safety specifications;software tool;state 
space;supervisory control theory;synthesis tool;template-based code 
generator;Automata;Discrete-event 
systems;Generators;Hardware;Safety;Software;Supervisory control},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497883&isnumber=7497815

D. Bohlender, H. Simon, N. Friedrich, S. Kowalewski and S. Hauck-Stattelmann, 
"Concolic test generation for PLC programs using coverage metrics," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
432-437.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497884
Abstract: This paper presents a technique for fully automated generation of test 
cases for PLC programs adhering to the IEC 61131-3 standard. While previous 
methods strive for completeness and therefore struggle with the state explosion 
we pursue a symbolic execution based approach, dropping completeness but 
nevertheless achieving similar or even better results in practice. The core 
component is a symbolic execution engine which chooses the next state to 
execute, handles constraints emerging during the execution and derives 
respective test vectors leading to a state. To make for a high coverage of the 
generated tests, we adopt techniques from concolic testing, allow for use of 
heuristics to prioritise promising states but also merge states to alleviate the 
path explosion. We exploit peculiarities of PLC semantics to determine 
reasonable merge-points and unlike similar approaches even handle unreachable 
code. To examine the feasibility of our technique we evaluate it on function 
blocks used in industry.
 keywords: {IEC standards;control engineering computing;industrial 
control;program testing;programmable controllers;software metrics;IEC 61131-3 
standard;PLC programs;PLC semantics;completeness;concolic test 
generation;concolic testing;coverage metrics;fully automated test case 
generation;function blocks;merge-points;path explosion;state explosion;symbolic 
execution based approach;symbolic execution engine;unreachable code 
handling;Concrete;Explosions;Measurement;Merging;Semantics;Software;Testing},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497884&isnumber=7497815

R. Malik, "Programming a fast explicit conflict checker," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
438-443.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497885
Abstract: This paper describes the implementation of explicit model checking 
algorithms to verify the nonblocking or nonconflicting property of discrete 
event systems. Explicit algorithms enumerate and store all reachable states of a 
synchronous composition. Three alternatives optimised for memory consumption or 
runtime are described and compared. The algorithms have been implemented in C++ 
in the discrete event systems library Waters, and experimental results show that 
they can explore more than 100 million states on standard computers.
 keywords: {C++ language;formal verification;C++ implementation;discrete event 
system nonblocking property;discrete event system nonconflicting 
property;discrete event systems library;explicit model checking algorithm 
implementation;fast-explicit conflict checker;memory 
consumption;runtime;Discrete-event systems;Indexes;Memory management;Model 
checking;Software algorithms;Standards;System recovery},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497885&isnumber=7497815

M. Zgorzelski and J. Lunze, "A method for the synchronisation of networked 
discrete-event systems," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 444-451.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497886
Abstract: This paper describes networked discrete-event systems as a set of 
controlled subsystems, which are physically and digitally connected. The 
controlled subsystems have two operation modes: In the autonomous mode they 
achieve local tasks independently of each other, whereas in the synchronisation 
mode they perform given tasks synchronously by using communication. The paper 
proposes to model the networked discrete-event system by an Input/Ouput (I/O) 
automata network and gives a method for partial cooperation between the 
controlled subsystems. A tracking control architecture, which has been 
previously published for centralized systems, is extended to cope with the 
physical interconnections and the digital communications with other controllers. 
It is proved that the resulting networked tracking controller guarantees 
autonomous and partially cooperative behaviour. These results are demonstrated 
by means of an example featuring a flexible manufacturing system.
 keywords: {automata theory;discrete event systems;flexible manufacturing 
systems;networked control systems;synchronisation;autonomous mode;flexible 
manufacturing system;input/ouput automata network;networked discrete-event 
systems;synchronisation;tracking control architecture;Automata;Communication 
networks;Couplings;Digital communication;Discrete-event 
systems;Synchronization},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497886&isnumber=7497815

M. Kloetzer and C. Mahulea, "Multi-robot path planning for syntactically co-safe 
LTL specifications," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems 
(WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 452-458.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497887
Abstract: This paper presents an automatic strategy to control a team of 
identical robots that should satisfy a given task expressed as a syntactically 
co-safe Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formula over a set of regions of interest. 
The team of robots is modeled by using a Petri net system with outputs 
(observations), thus avoiding the use of synchronized product of automatons. The 
strategy starts by translating the task into a Büchi automaton and by choosing 
a finite string satisfying the formula. Three Integer Linear Programming (ILP) 
formulations are used to find in the Petri net model a sequence of reachable 
markings such that the generated observations produce the chosen string of the 
Büchi automaton. If the string is not correctly followed, another one is found 
and the procedure is reiterated.
 keywords: {Petri nets;automata theory;integer programming;linear 
programming;mobile robots;multi-robot systems;path planning;temporal logic;Buchi 
automaton;ILP formulation;Petri net system;finite string;identical 
robots;integer linear programming;linear temporal logic;multirobot path 
planning;syntactically co-safe LTL specification;Automata;Collision 
avoidance;Computational modeling;Petri nets;Trajectory},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497887&isnumber=7497815

L. Capra, "A pure SPEC-inscribed PN model for reconfigurable systems," 2016 13th 
International Workshop on Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 
459-465.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497888
Abstract: Petri Nets (PN) are a well established formal model for discrete event 
systems (DES). Classical PNs, even if Turing powerful, lack of features for 
specifying in an easy way structural changes that are likely to occur during 
systems' lifecycle. Many different attempts to face this issue have lead to 
several PN extensions, among which those matching the “nets within nets” 
paradigm are of particular relevance. In this paper we consolidate a recently 
introduced formal model for reconfigurable DES rigorously based on Reisig's 
SPEC-inscribed nets, that have a sound algebraic initial semantics. Although 
inspired by the same principles and goals as the “nets within net” paradigm, our 
approach is uniform and consists of a single modelling layer. This permits 
consolidated analysis techniques to be exploited. A well known, first-order 
declarative language (OBJ) is used to inscribe nets.
 keywords: {Petri nets;algebra;discrete event simulation;OBJ;Petri nets;Reisig's 
SPEC-inscribed nets;SPEC-inscribed PN model;Turing;algebraic initial 
semantics;discrete event systems;first-order declarative language;formal 
model;nets within net paradigm;reconfigurable DES;reconfigurable systems;single 
modelling layer;Analytical models;Computational modeling;Discrete-event 
systems;Face;Object oriented modeling;Petri nets;Semantics},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497888&isnumber=7497815

D. Lefebvre, "Deadlock-free scheduling for timed Petri net models combined with 
MPC and backtracking," 2016 13th International Workshop on Discrete Event 
Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 466-471.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497889
Abstract: This paper proposes algorithms that incrementally compute control 
sequences driving the marking of timed Petri nets from an initial value to a 
reference one, avoiding forbidden and dangerous states with a duration that 
approaches the minimal value. The proposed algorithms are applicable to a large 
class of discrete event systems in particular in the domain of flexible 
manufacturing, communication and computer science or transportation and traffic. 
To overcome the most burdensome part of the computations, only the sequences 
encoded in a small area of the reachability graph are worked out. The main 
contributions are to propose an estimation of the minimal duration of the 
remaining sequences to the reference based on the computation of the firing 
count vectors and a progressive search of the forbidden and dangerous states 
according to a backtracking phase. The approach is suitable for deadlock-free 
scheduling problems.
 keywords: {Petri nets;backtracking;control system synthesis;discrete event 
systems;predictive control;reachability analysis;scheduling;MPC;control 
sequences;dangerous states;deadlock-free scheduling problem;discrete event 
systems;firing count vectors;forbidden states;progressive search;reachability 
graph;timed Petri net models;Cost function;Firing;Job shop scheduling;Petri 
nets;Processor scheduling;System recovery},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497889&isnumber=7497815

R. Ammour, E. Leclercq, E. Sanlaville and D. Lefebvre, "Faults prognosis using 
partially observed stochastic Petri nets," 2016 13th International Workshop on 
Discrete Event Systems (WODES), Xi'an, 2016, pp. 472-477.
doi: 10.1109/WODES.2016.7497890
Abstract: This article deals with the problem of fault prognosis in stochastic 
discrete event systems. For that purpose, partially observed stochastic Petri 
nets are considered to model the system with its sensors. The model represents 
both healthy and faulty behaviors of the system. Marking trajectories which are 
consistent with the measurements issued from the sensors are first obtained. 
Based on the events dates, the probabilities of the consistent trajectories are 
evaluated and a state estimation is obtained as a consequence. From the set of 
possible current states and their probabilities, a method to evaluate the 
probability of future fault is developed using a probabilistic model. An example 
is presented to illustrate the results.
 keywords: {Petri nets;discrete event systems;fault diagnosis;probability;state 
estimation;stochastic processes;faults prognosis;partially observed stochastic 
Petri nets;probabilities;state estimation;stochastic discrete event 
systems;Computational modeling;Firing;Petri nets;Prognostics and health 
management;Sensors;Stochastic processes;Trajectory},
URL: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7497890&isnumber=7497815

